Two Thanksgiving Day Gentlemen

by O. Henry

About the Author

Two Thanksgiving Day Gentlemen (1907) was written by the American novelist William Sydney Porter (1862-1910), who is better known by his pen name, O. Henry. Using ironic humor and unexpected endings, he wrote nearly 600 stories about the lives of ordinary people in America.

There is one day when all Americans gather to eat a big dinner. We don't actually remember much about the people who had the first Thanksgiving. But we know they ate a large bird called a turkey, so it is served for Thanksgiving dinner. That is a tradition, and Thanksgiving Day is the one day of the year that is purely American. Here is a story to prove that there are old traditions even in this new country.

Stuffy Pete sat down on a seat in a New York City park. Every Thanksgiving Day for nine years, he had sat there at one in the afternoon. Every time he was there, something wonderful had happened to him. This filled his heart with joy, and it filled another part of him, too.

On most ordinary days, Stuffy was hungry. But on this day, he was not hungry at all. He had had a dinner that was so big that he could barely move. His body seemed ready to break out of his clothes. It is a strange thing. There are rich people who wish to help the poor, but many of them seem to think that the poor are hungry only on Thanksgiving Day.

The dinner had been completely unexpected. Near the park, there was a large house where two elderly ladies lived. Every Thanksgiving Day, they sent a servant to the front door of their house to bring in the first hungry-looking person who was walking by and offer the person a meal. This was their tradition. And on this day, Stuffy Pete was passing by on his way to the park when the ladies' servant came to the door. She brought Stuffy into the house and fed him until he could eat no more. Tradition was followed.

From his seat in the park, a very full Stuffy Pete spotted something that made his breath stop. The Old Gentleman was coming toward him.

Every Thanksgiving Day for nine years, the Old Gentleman had come to find Stuffy on his seat. After that, he led Stuffy to a restaurant and watched him eat a big dinner. This was the very thing that the Old Gentleman was trying to make into a tradition. Buying dinner for Stuffy once a year was a small act, but the Old Gentleman believed that he was helping to build a great American tradition. In order to build a tradition, the same thing must be done again and again for a long time, and he had been doing very well. Nine years is a long time in America, as it is a young country compared to old countries like England.

The Old Gentleman was thin and tall, and he was dressed all in black. His hair was whiter and thinner than it had been the previous year. His legs did not seem as strong as they had seemed the year before. As this kind Old Gentleman came toward him, Stuffy wished he could fly away. But he could not move from his seat.

"I am glad to see that the troubles of another year have not hurt you," said the Old Gentleman. "If you come with me, I will give you a dinner that will surely make your body feel as thankful as your mind."

That was what the Old Gentleman had said every Thanksgiving Day for nine years. The words themselves were almost a tradition. For the past nine years, they had always been music to Stuffy's ears. But now as he looked up at the Old Gentleman's face, Stuffy had tears of suffering in his eyes.

Stuffy had always wondered why the Old Gentleman seemed sad as he spoke. He was unaware that the Old Gentleman was wishing that he had a son. A son could come there once the Old Gentleman himself was gone. He would stand proud and strong before Stuffy, and say, "I have come in remembrance of my father." Then it would really be a tradition. But the Old Gentleman had no family. He lived alone in a room in one of the old houses near the park.

Feeling helpless and very sorry for himself, Stuffy Pete looked up at him for a minute. The Old Gentleman's eyes were bright with the pleasure of giving. After a while, with great effort, Stuffy spoke. "Thank you. I'm very hungry."

Stuffy was very full, but he understood that he was part of a tradition. The Old Gentleman led Stuffy to the restaurant and to the same table as before. The Old Gentleman sat at the table and watched the waiters bring large amounts of food. Stuffy struggled with his full stomach as he ate and ate. However, he couldn't stop eating, as he saw the look of happiness on the Old Gentleman's face. So he continued until he finished the whole meal.

When the struggle was finished, Stuffy said, "Thank you for my Thanksgiving dinner." Then he stood up heavily to leave. The Old Gentleman carefully counted out one dollar and thirty cents and left fifteen cents more for the waiter.

The two men said goodbye at the door, and the Old Gentleman went south, while Stuffy went north. After turning the first corner, Stuffy stood for a moment, then collapsed. Before long, he was picked up and taken to a hospital. An hour later, the Old Gentleman was brought to the same hospital.

After a while, one of the doctors met another doctor, and they discussed the Old Gentleman's case. "Did you hear what's wrong with that nice old gentleman over there? He almost died from hunger. He seems like a very proud man. He told me he hadn't eaten for three days."
