
=== PAGE 1 ===
2025학년도 3월 고1 전국연합학력평가 문제지
1
영어 영역
제3 교시
7.대화를 듣고, 남자가 휴대 전화를 수리받지 못한 이유를 고르시오.
1번부터 17번까지는 듣고 답하는 문제입니다. 1번부터
15번까지는 한 번만 들려주고, 16번부터 17번까지는 두 번 ① 수리점의 위치를 찾지 못해서
들려줍니다. 방송을 잘 듣고 답을 하시기 바랍니다. ② 예약 없이 수리점을 방문해서
③ 수학 시험을 준비하느라 바빠서
④ 수리점에서 오래 기다려야 해서
1.다음을 듣고, 남자가 하는 말의 목적으로 가장 적절한 것을 고
⑤ 버스에서 휴대 전화를 잃어버려서
르시오.
① 학교 운동장 공사 계획을 안내하려고 8.대화를 듣고, Future Generation Talk Show에 관해 언급되지
② 교내 드론 대회 개최 소식을 알리려고 않은 것을 고르시오.
③ 학교 홍보용 드론 촬영 일정을 공지하려고
① 개최 장소
④ 학교 드론 동아리 공연의 관람을 권하려고
② 강연자
⑤ 교내 드론 공연의 관람 안전 수칙을 강조하려고
③ 강연 주제
④ 시작 시간
2.대화를 듣고, 여자의 의견으로 가장 적절한 것을 고르시오.
⑤ 온라인 시청 가능 여부
① 학급 뮤지컬은 다양한 음악을 활용해야 한다.
② 학급 뮤지컬은 학생이 공연하기 쉬워야 한다. 9.Science Day 행사에 관한 다음 내용을 듣고, 일치하지 않는 것
③ 학급 뮤지컬은 인기 있는 소재를 다루어야 한다. 을 고르시오.
④ 학급 뮤지컬은 의미 있는 교훈을 전달해야 한다.
① 이번 주 토요일에 진행된다.
⑤ 학급 뮤지컬은 학생 모두가 역할을 맡아야 한다.
② 학생들이 직접 로봇을 작동해 볼 수 있다.
③ 선생님들이 오전에 실험 부스를 운영한다.
3.다음을 듣고, 남자가 하는 말의 요지로 가장 적절한 것을 고르시오.
④ QR 코드를 스캔하여 참가 신청을 할 수 있다.
① 건강을 지키기 위해서 규칙적인 운동이 필수적이다. ⑤ 참가자들에게 점심을 제공한다.
② 바쁜 일상에서 휴식을 취하는 것은 건강에 중요하다.
③ 집중력을 높이는 것은 업무 수행 능력을 향상시킨다. 10.다음 표를 보면서 대화를 듣고, 여자가 수강할 운동 수업을
④ 운동 부족을 보완하려면 적절한 식이 요법이 필요하다. 고르시오.
⑤ 다양한 인간관계가 스트레스를 줄이는 데 도움이 된다.
Exercise Classes
4.대화를 듣고, 그림에서 대화의 내용과 일치하지 않는 것을 고 Class Fee Time Exercise Type Level
① A $25 9:00 a.m. Dancing Beginner
르시오.
② B $35 10:00 a.m. Dancing Advanced
③ C $35 10:00 a.m. Tennis Beginner
④ D $35 2:00 p.m. Boxing Beginner
⑤ E $45 10:00 a.m. Boxing Advanced
11.대화를 듣고, 여자의 마지막 말에 대한 남자의 응답으로 가장
적절한 것을 고르시오.
① I’ll ask the teacher if I can change my topic.
② I record myself talking and watch it later.
③ I’m looking forward to your presentation.
④ I need more time to finish my slides.
5.대화를 듣고, 남자가 할 일로 가장 적절한 것을 고르시오.
⑤ I haven’t decided what to wear.
① 숲지도 다운로드 하기
② 산책 장소 찾아보기 12.대화를 듣고, 남자의 마지막 말에 대한 여자의 응답으로 가장
③ 숲 입장권 구매하기 적절한 것을 고르시오.
④ 식당 메뉴 찾아보기
① Thanks. But I’m not hungry now.
⑤ 식당 예약하기
② I agree. Printing it out is such a waste.
③ Of course not. I’ll help you at any time.
6.대화를 듣고, 여자가 지불할 금액을 고르시오. [3점]
④ Great idea! It’ll catch the students’ attention.
① $13 ② $20 ③ $23 ④ $30 ⑤ $33 ⑤ No worries. I like the menu of our school cafeteria.
1
8

=== PAGE 2 ===
2 영어 영역
고 1
13.대화를 듣고, 여자의 마지막 말에 대한 남자의 응답으로 가장 18.다음 글의 목적으로 가장 적절한 것은?
적절한 것을 고르시오.
Dear Miranda,
Man:
Thank you for participating in our Crafts Art Fair. Since
① Right. I’ll try to go to bed earlier and get more sleep.
we’ve chosen you as one of the ‘Artists of This Year’, we
② I’m sorry. I didn’t know you had a hard time sleeping.
are looking forward to introducing your unique handmade
③ Absolutely! I believe you’ll do better next time. baskets to our community. As part of organizing the
④ Sure. I’ll do my best to stay awake longer. exhibition plan, we are happy to inform you that your
⑤ I see. I’ll try to come back home in time. artworks will be exhibited at the assigned table, number
seven. Visitors can easily find your artworks located near
the entrance. If you have any special requirements or need
further assistance, feel free to contact us in advance.
14.대화를 듣고, 남자의 마지막 말에 대한 여자의 응답으로 가장
Sincerely,
적절한 것을 고르시오. [3점] Helen Dwyer
Woman:
① 공예품 구매 희망자를 소개하려고
① Reading books can also be a good hobby.
② 비상시 박람회장 대피 동선을 안내하려고
② You had to practice a lot to win the game.
③ 작품이 전시될 지정 테이블을 알려 주려고
③ How about going out with me this Saturday?
④ 올해의 공예가 선정 투표 방식을 공지하려고
④ Just bring your racket and some comfortable clothes. ⑤ 박람회에 참여할 새로운 공예가를 모집하려고
⑤ If you don’t have a hobby, you can get more stressed.
19.다음 글에 드러난 ‘I’의 심경 변화로 가장 적절한 것은?
The shed is cold and damp, the air thick with the smell of
15.다음 상황 설명을 듣고, Kevin이 Ms. Tyler에게 할 말로 가
old wood and earth. It’s dark, and I can’t make out what’s
장 적절한 것을 고르시오. [3점] moving in the shadows. “Who’s there?” I ask, my voice
shaking with fear. The shadow moves closer, and my heart is
Kevin:
beating fast—until the figure steps into a faint beam of light
① Isn’t it fortunate that the rain stopped yesterday?
breaking through a crack in the wall. A rabbit. A laugh
② Could you teach us about the stars today?
escapes my lips as it stares at me with wide, curious eyes.
③ Is it okay if we change the camp site? “You scared me,” I say, feeling much better. The rabbit
④ Can we reschedule the camp for another day? pauses for a moment, then hops away, disappearing back into
⑤ How can we gather more volunteers for the camp? the shadows. I’m left smiling. I start to feel at ease.
*shed: 헛간
① envious → hopeful ② anxious → angry
[16~17] 다음을 듣고, 물음에 답하시오. ③ frightened → relieved ④ curious → regretful
⑤ excited → disappointed
16.여자가 하는 말의 주제로 가장 적절한 것은?
① useful tips for safe world travel 20.다음 글에서 필자가 주장하는 바로 가장 적절한 것은?
② necessary items for city travelers
Improving your gestural communication involves more than
③ famous historical cities in the world
just knowing when to nod or shake hands. It’s about using
④ importance of learning photo techniques
gestures to complement your spoken messages, adding layers
⑤ attractive photo spots around the world
of meaning to your words. Open­handed gestures, for
example, can indicate honesty, creating an atmosphere of
trust. You invite openness and collaboration when you speak
with your palms facing up. This simple yet powerful gesture
17.언급된 도시가 아닌 것은?
can make others feel more comfortable and willing to engage
① New York in conversation. But be careful of the trap of over­gesturing.
② Rome Too many hand movements can distract from your message,
drawing attention away from your words. Imagine a speaker
③ Paris
whose hands move quickly like birds, their message lost in
④ London
the chaos of their gestures. Balance is key. Your gestures
⑤ Sydney
should highlight your words, not overshadow them.
① 메시지를 잘 전달하기 위해서 열린 마음을 지녀야 한다.
② 효과적인 의사소통을 위해 몸짓을 적절히 사용해야 한다.
③ 청중의 반응을 파악하기 위해 그들의 몸짓에 주목해야 한다.
이제 듣기 문제가 끝났습니다. 18번부터는 문제지의 지시
④ 전달하고자 하는 것을 감추기보다 직접적으로 표현해야 한다.
에 따라 답을 하시기 바랍니다.
⑤ 상대방을 설득하기 위해서는 메시지를 반복적으로 강조해야 한다.
2
8

=== PAGE 3 ===
영어 영역 3
고 1
21.밑줄 친 start down this slippery slope이 다음 글에서 의미 23.다음 글의 주제로 가장 적절한 것은?
하는 바로 가장 적절한 것은? [3점]
There is a wealth of evidence that when parents, teachers,
Assuming gene editing in humans proves to be safe and supervisors, and coaches are perceived as involved and
effective, it might seem logical, even preferable, to correct caring, people feel happier and more motivated. And it is not
disease­causing mutations at the earliest possible stage of just those people with power—we need to feel valued and
life, before harmful genes begin causing serious problems. respected by peers and coworkers. Thus, when the need for
Yet once it becomes possible to transform an embryo’s relatedness is met, motivation and internalization are fueled,
mutated genes into “normal” ones, there will certainly be provided that support for autonomy and competence are also
temptations to upgrade normal genes to superior versions. there. If we are trying to motivate others, a caring
Should we begin editing genes in unborn children to lower relationship is a crucial basis from which to begin. And
their lifetime risk of heart disease or cancer? What about when we are trying to motivate ourselves, doing things to
giving unborn children beneficial features, like greater enhance a sense of connectedness to others can be crucial
strength and increased mental abilities, or changing physical to long­term persistence. So exercise with a friend, call
characteristics, like eye and hair color? The pursuit for someone when you have a difficult decision to make, and be
perfection seems almost natural to human nature, but if we there as a support for others as they take on challenges.
start down this slippery slope, we may not like where we
*autonomy: 자율성 **persistence: 지속
end up.
① ways of getting out of dependent relationships
*mutation: 돌연변이 **embryo: 배아
② necessity of independent decision­making for happier life
① allow genetic alterations to upgrade humans ③ key factors required for boosting a competitive atmosphere
② stick to the traditional beliefs in human nature ④ challenges in maintaining lasting bonds with family members
③ resist the temptation to change genes in humans ⑤ importance of building connected relationships in motivation
④ fail to reduce the risk of suffering from diseases
⑤ consider more about the moral issues of genetics
24.다음 글의 제목으로 가장 적절한 것은?
22.다음 글의 요지로 가장 적절한 것은?
Modern brain­scanning techniques such as fMRI (functional
The science we learn in grade school is a collection of Magnetic Resonance Imaging) have revealed that reading
certainties about the natural world—the earth goes around aloud lights up many areas of the brain. There is intense
the sun, DNA carries the information of an organism, and so activity in areas associated with pronunciation and hearing
on. Only when you start to learn the practice of science do the sound of the spoken response, which strengthens the
you realize that each of these “facts” was hard won through connective structures of your brain cells for more
a succession of logical inferences based upon many brainpower. This leads to an overall improvement in
observations or experiments. The process of science is less concentration. Reading aloud is also a good way to develop
about collecting pieces of knowledge than it is about reducing your public speaking skills because it forces you to read
the uncertainties in what we know. Our uncertainties can be each and every word—something people don’t often do
greater or lesser for any given piece of knowledge depending when reading quickly, or reading in silence. Children, in
upon where we are in that process—today we are quite particular, should be encouraged to read aloud because the
certain of how an apple will fall from a tree, but our brain is wired for learning through connections that are
understanding of the turbulent fluid flow remains a work in created by positive stimulation, such as singing, touching,
progress after more than a century of effort. and reading aloud.
*inference: 추론 **turbulent fluid flow: 난류 유동 *stimulation: 자극
① 과학은 현재의 지식에 대한 불확실함을 줄이는 과정이다. ① Reading Aloud: Improving Brainpower and Speaking Skills
② 관찰과 실험 과정에서 우연히 얻어진 과학적 사실이 많다. ② Reading Practices: Shortcuts to Academic Achievements
③ 학생들에게 다양한 연구 방법을 가르치는 것이 중요하다. ③ Improve Your Writing Skills Through Reading Aloud
④ 과학 연구에서는 정확한 실험 과정 설계가 핵심이다. ④ How Your Brain Changes When You Read in Silence
⑤ 과학은 분산된 지식을 수집하여 통합하는 학문이다. ⑤ Techniques for Faster and More Effective Reading
3
8

=== PAGE 4 ===
4 영어 영역
고 1
25.다음 도표의 내용과 일치하지 않는 것은? 27.Blackwood Zoo에 관한 다음 안내문의 내용과 일치하지 않는
것은?
Welcome to Blackwood Zoo
Get ready to explore! You can watch amazing animals
on our 10km walking path.
Hours of Operation
•Every day, all year round!
•9:30 a.m.-4:30 p.m. (Last admission at 3:30 p.m.)
Ticket Prices
•Age 13-64: $30
•Age 3-12: $20
•Others: Free
Seasonal Note
Since the weather is still cold, some animals like
The above graph shows how often people in America snakes and turtles will stay only indoors.
consumed fast food in 2023, sorted according to frequency
※Free shuttle bus departs from Blackwood Subway
of consumption. ①More than 50 percent of individuals
Station every 30 minutes.
consumed fast food once a week or more frequently. ②The
most highly reported pattern of consumption was a few
times a week, which was 36 percent of the total. ③The ① 10km의 보행로에서 동물들을 볼 수 있다.
second most highly reported pattern was a few times a ② 운영 시간은 오후 3시 30분까지이다.
month, accounting for 18 percent of the total. ④The ③ 3세부터 12세까지의 티켓 가격은 20달러이다.
percentage of people who ate fast food once every couple of ④ 날씨가 여전히 추워서 일부 동물은 실내에만 머무를 것이다.
months was more than that of those who consumed it daily. ⑤ 무료 셔틀버스가 30분마다 출발한다.
⑤The combined share of those who rarely or never ate fast
food was less than 10 percent.
28.Sock DIY Workshop에 관한 다음 안내문의 내용과 일치하는
것은?
Sock DIY Workshop
Join us for a fun and creative Sock DIY (Do It
Yourself) Workshop for all ages!
When & Where
•Saturday, April 19th, from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m.
26.Robert E. Lucas, Jr.에 관한 다음 글의 내용과 일치하지 않는 •The community hall, Clanton Center
것은? Workshop Program
Robert E. Lucas, Jr. was born on September 15, 1937, in Time DIY Item Things to Do
Yakima, Washington. During World War II, his family moved
1 p.m.-2 p.m. Toys Create stuffed toys with socks
to Seattle, where he graduated from Roosevelt High School.
Flowerpot Transform socks into decorative
At the University of Chicago, he majored in history. After 2 p.m.-3 p.m.
Covers covers for small flowerpots
taking economic history courses at University of California,
What Participants Should Prepare
Berkeley, he developed an interest in economics. He earned
•Used but clean socks
a doctoral degree in economics from the University of
Participation Fee
Chicago in 1964. He taught at Carnegie Mellon University
•$5 per person (including the cost for materials)
from 1963 to 1974 before returning to the University of
Chicago to become a professor of economics. He was known ※For more details, visit the Clanton Center website or
as a very influential economist and, in 1995, he was call us at 555-123-4567.
awarded the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences.
① 제2차 세계대전 중에 그의 가족이 Seattle로 이주했다. ① 4월 19일 토요일 오후 1시부터 4시까지 열린다.
② 경제사를 수강한 후에 경제학에 대한 흥미를 키웠다. ② Clanton Center의 커뮤니티 홀에서 진행된다.
③ University of Chicago에서 경제학 박사 학위를 받았다. ③ 참가자는 오후 2시부터 양말로 장난감을 만든다.
④ 1963년부터 1974년까지 University of Chicago에서 가르쳤다. ④ 참가자는 사용하지 않은 깨끗한 양말을 준비해야 한다.
⑤ 1995년에 노벨상을 수상했다. ⑤ 참가비는 재료비를 제외하고 1인당 5달러이다.
4
8

=== PAGE 5 ===
영어 영역 5
고 1
29.다음 글의 밑줄 친 부분 중, 어법상 틀린 것은? [31~34] 다음 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것을 고르시오.
Routines enable athletes to evaluate competition conditions. 31.Plato argued that when you see something that strikes you
For example, bouncing a ball in a volleyball service routine as beautiful, you are really just seeing a partial reflection of
①supplies the server with information about the ball, the true beauty, just as a painting or even a photograph only
floor, and the state of her muscles. This information can captures part of the real thing. True beauty, or what Plato
then be used to ②properly prepare for her serve. Routines calls the Form of Beauty, has no particular color, shape, or
also enable athletes to adjust and fine­tune their preparations size. Rather, it is a(n) idea, like the number
③based on those evaluations or in pursuit of a particular five. You can make drawings of the number five in blue or
competitive goal. This adaptation can involve adjustment to red ink, big or small, but the number five itself is none of
the conditions, rivals, competitive situation, or internal those things. It has no physical form. Think of the idea of a
influences ④what can affect performance. Just like adjusting triangle, for example. Although it has no particular color or
a race­car engine to the conditions of the track, air size, it somehow lies within each and every triangle you
temperature, and weather, routines adjust all competitive see. Plato thought the same was true of beauty. The Form
components ⑤to achieve proper performance. of Beauty somehow lies within each and every beautiful
thing you see.
*component: 구성 요소
① abstract
② practical
③ imperfect
④ visualized
⑤ changeable
32.As you listen to your child in an emotional moment, be
aware that usually works better
than asking questions to get a conversation rolling. You may
30.다음 글의 밑줄 친 부분 중, 문맥상 낱말의 쓰임이 적절하지 ask your child “Why do you feel sad?” and she may not
have a clue. As a child, she may not have an answer on the
않은 것은? [3점]
tip of her tongue. Maybe she’s feeling sad about her
Promotion deals with consumer psychology. We can’t ①force
parents’ arguments, or because she feels overtired, or she’s
people to think one way or another, and the clever marketer
worried about a piano recital. But she may or may not be
knows that promotion is used to provide information in the
able to explain any of this. And even when she does come
most clear, honest, and simple fashion possible. By doing so,
up with an answer, she might be worried that the answer is
the possibility of increasing sales goes up. Gone are the days
not good enough to justify the feeling. Under these
when promotions were done in order to ②fool the consumer
circumstances, a series of questions can just make a child
into purchasing something. The long‐term effect of getting a
silent. It’s better to simply reflect what you notice. You can
consumer to buy something they did not really want or need
say, “You seem a little tired today,” or, “I noticed that you
wasn’t good. In fact, consumers fooled once can do ③damage
frowned when I mentioned the recital,” and wait for her
to sales as they relate their experience to others. Instead,
response.
marketers now know that their goal is to ④identify the
consumers who are most likely to appreciate a good or ① giving quick advice
service, and to promote that good or service in a way that ② pushing her for answers
makes the value clear to the consumer. Therefore, marketers ③ sharing simple observations
must know where the ⑤uninterested consumers are, and how ④ telling your own life stories
to reach them. ⑤ leaving her alone to cool down
5
8

=== PAGE 6 ===
6 영어 영역
고 1
33.Our skin conducts electricity more or less efficiently, 35.다음 글에서 전체 흐름과 관계 없는 문장은?
depending on our emotions. We know that when we’re
What does it mean for a character to be a hero as
emotionally stimulated—stressed, sad, any intense emotion,
opposed to a villain? In artistic and entertainment
really—our bodies sweat a tiny bit, so little we might not
descriptions, it’s essential for the author to establish a
even notice. And when those tiny drops of sweat appear, our
positive relationship between a protagonist and the audience.
skin gets more electrically conductive. This change in sweat
①In order for tragedy or misfortune to draw out an
gland activity happens completely without your conscious mind
emotional response in viewers, the character must be
having much say in the matter. If you feel emotionally intense,
adjusted so as to be recognizable as either friend or enemy.
you’re going to notice an increase in sweat gland activity. This
②Likewise, the line between friends and enemies is not
is particularly useful from a scientific viewpoint, because it
clear in reality. ③Whether the portrayal is fictional or
allows us to put an objective value on a subjective state of
documentary, we must feel that the protagonist is someone
mind. We can actually by
whose actions benefit us; the protagonist is, or would be, a
tracking how your body subconsciously sweats, by running a bit
worthy companion or valued ally. ④Violent action films are
of electricity through your skin. We can then turn the
often filled with dozens of incidental deaths of minor
subjective, subconscious experience of emotional intensity into
characters that draw out little response in the audience. ⑤In
an objective number by figuring out how good your skin gets at
order to feel strong emotions, the audience must be
transferring an electrical current. [3점]
emotionally invested in a character as either ally or enemy.
*sweat gland: 땀샘
*villain: 악당 **protagonist: 주인공
① limit reactions of hormones
② control the electrical current
③ improve your skin conditions
④ measure your emotional state
⑤ diversify emotional experiences
[36~37] 주어진 글 다음에 이어질 글의 순서로 가장 적절한 것
을 고르시오.
36.
34.Plants can communicate, although not in the same way we
Let’s assume that at least some animals are capable of
do. Some express their discontent through scents. You know
thinking despite lacking a language.
that smell that hangs in the air after you’ve mowed the
lawn? Yeah, that’s actually an SOS. Some plants use sound. (A) This doesn’t imply that squirrels lack concepts, simply
Yes, sound, though at a frequency that we can’t hear. that they don’t need them for this concrete form of
Researchers experimented with plants and microphones to thinking. For us to be able to say that an animal has
see if they could record any trouble calls. They found that concepts, we have to show not just that she’s capable of
plants produce a high­frequency clicking noise when stressed
thinking, but also that she has certain specific abilities.
and can make different sounds for different stressors. The
(B) To do this, in principle she doesn’t need a concept of
sound a plant makes when it’s not getting watered differs
branch nor a concept of tree. It might be enough for her
from the one it’ll make when a leaf is cut. However, it’s
to have, for example, the ability to think in images; to
worth noting that experts don’t think plants are crying out in
make a mental map of the tree where she can imagine
pain. It’s more likely that these reactions are knee­jerk
and try out different routes.
survival actions. Plants are living organisms, and their main
objective is to survive. Scents and sounds are their tools for (C) This doesn’t necessarily mean that they possess concepts,
. [3점] for some forms of thought may be nonconceptual. We can
*scent: 냄새 **mow: (잔디를) 깎다 imagine, for instance, a squirrel who is planning how to
***knee­jerk: 자동적인 get from the branch she’s currently standing on to a
branch from the tree in front. [3점]
① defending against things that might harm them
*squirrel: 다람쥐
② showing their support for neighboring plants
③ hiding their pains and dissatisfaction ① (A)-(C)-(B) ② (B)-(A)-(C)
④ sharing nutrients with other plants ③ (B)-(C)-(A) ④ (C)-(A)-(B)
⑤ changing their genetic structure ⑤ (C)-(B)-(A)
6
8

=== PAGE 7 ===
영어 영역 7
고 1
37. 39.
Cartilage is extremely important for the healthy But all this wisdom about how to deal with heat,
functioning of a joint, especially if that joint bears accumulated over centuries of practical experience, is
weight, like your knee. all too often ignored.
(A) This squeezing of joint fluid into and out of the The rise of air­conditioning accelerated the construction of
cartilage helps it respond to the off­and­on pressure of sealed boxes, where the building’s only airflow is through
walking without breaking under the pressure. the filtered ducts of the air­conditioning unit. It doesn’t have
to be this way. Look at any old building in a hot climate,
(B) The cartilage in your left knee then “drinks in” synovial
whether it’s in Sicily or Marrakesh or Tehran. (①)
fluid, in much the same way that a sponge soaks up
Architects understood the importance of shade, airflow, light
liquid when put in water. When you take another step
colors. (②) They oriented buildings to capture cool breezes
and transfer the weight back onto your left leg, much of
and block the worst heat of the afternoon. (③) They built
the fluid squeezes out of the cartilage.
with thick walls and white roofs and transoms over doors to
(C) Imagine for a moment that you’re looking into the inner
encourage airflow. (④) Anyone who has ever spent a few
workings of your left knee as you walk down the
minutes in a mudbrick house in Tucson, or walked on the
street. When you shift your weight from your left leg
narrow streets of old Seville, knows how well these
to your right, the pressure on your left knee is
construction methods work. (⑤) In this sense,
released. [3점]
air­conditioning is not just a technology of personal comfort;
*cartilage: 연골 **synovial fluid: 윤활액
it is also a technology of forgetting.
① (A)-(C)-(B) ② (B)-(A)-(C)
*accumulate: 축적하다 **duct: (배)관 ***transom: 채광창
③ (B)-(C)-(A) ④ (C)-(A)-(B)
⑤ (C)-(B)-(A)
40.다음 글의 내용을 한 문장으로 요약하려 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)
에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?
In the course of trying to solve a problem with an
invention, you may encounter a brick wall of resistance
when you try to think your way logically through the
problem. Such logical thinking is a linear type of process,
which uses our reasoning skills. This works fine when
we’re operating in the area of what we know or have
experienced. However, when we need to deal with new
information, ideas, and viewpoints, linear thinking will
[38~39] 글의 흐름으로 보아, 주어진 문장이 들어가기에 가장
often come up short. On the other hand, creativity by
적절한 곳을 고르시오.
definition involves the application of new information to
38. old problems and the conception of new viewpoints and
ideas. For this you will be most effective if you learn to
Piaget argued that children’s understanding of operate in a nonlinear manner; that is, use your creative
morality is like their understanding of those water brain. Stated differently, if you think in a linear manner,
glasses: we can’t say that it is innate or kids learn you’ll tend to be conservative and keep coming up with
it directly from adults. techniques which are already known. This, of course, is
just what you don’t want.
Piaget put the same amount of water into two different *linear: 선형의 **conservative: 보수적인
glasses: a tall narrow glass and a wide glass, then asked
kids to compare two glasses. (①) Kids younger than six or 
seven usually say that the tall narrow glass now holds more
(A) thinking works well with familiar problems
water, because the level is higher. (②) And when they are
but falls short in dealing with new ideas, for which
ready, they figure out the conservation of volume for
creative thinking is needed to come up with
themselves just by playing with cups of water. (③) Rather,
(B) solutions.
it is self­constructed as kids play with other kids. (④)
Taking turns in a game is like pouring water back and forth
(A) (B)
between glasses. (⑤) Once kids have reached the age of
① Logical ······ innovative
five or six, then playing games and working things out
② Flexible ······ instant
together will help them learn about fairness far more
③ Logical ······ proven
effectively than any teaching from adults.
④ Flexible ······ superior
*innate: 타고난 **conservation: 보존 ⑤ Logical ······ collaborative
7
8

=== PAGE 8 ===
8 영어 영역
고 1
[41~42] 다음 글을 읽고, 물음에 답하시오. (B)
“How did you do all this?” he asked. And he continued,
Some researchers view spoken languages as incomplete
“When you bought the farm, you barely had any money.
devices for capturing precise differences. They think
How did you get so rich?” Victor smiled and said, “I owe
numbers represent the most neutral language of description.
it all to (b)you. There were diamonds on this land—acres
However, when our language of description is changed to and acres of diamonds! I got rich because I discovered
numbers, we do not move toward greater (a)accuracy. those diamonds.” “Diamonds?” Jack said in disbelief. And
Numbers are no more appropriate ‘pictures of the world’ he said, “I knew every part of that land, and there were
than words, music, or painting. While useful for specific no diamonds!”
purposes (e.g. census taking, income distribution), they *acres of: 대량의
(b)include information of enormous value. For example,
(C)
the future lives of young students are tied to their scores
Victor reached into his pocket and carefully pulled out
on national tests. In effect, whether they can continue
something small and shiny. Holding it between (c)his
with their education, where, and at what cost depends
fingers, he let it catch the light. He said, “This is a
importantly on a handful of numbers. These numbers do
diamond.” Jack was amazed and said, “I saw so many
not account for the (c)quality of schools they have
rocks like that and thought they were useless. They made
attended, whether they have been tutored, have supportive
farming so hard!” Victor laughed and said, “(d)You didn’t
parents, have test anxiety, and so on. Finally, putting
know what diamonds look like. Sometimes, treasures are
aside the many ways in which statistical results can be
hidden right in front of us.”
manipulated, there are ways in which turning people’s lives
into numbers is (d)morally insulating. Statistics on crime, (D)
homelessness, or the spread of a disease say nothing of
One day, he drove past his old land and was shocked by
people’s suffering. We read the statistics as reports on
what he saw. Victor, the man who had bought the farm
events at a distance, thus allowing us to (e)escape
with very little money, now seemed to be living a life of
without being disturbed. Statistics are human beings with great success. He had torn down the farmhouse and built
the tears wiped off. Quantify with caution. a massive house in its place. New buildings, trees, and
*statistical: 통계의 **manipulate: 조작하다 flowers adorned the well­kept property. Jack could hardly
***insulating: 차단하는
believe that (e)he had ever worked on this same land.
Curious, he stopped to talk to Victor.
41.윗글의 제목으로 가장 적절한 것은?
*adorn: 꾸미다
① Numbers Don’t Tell Us Everything
43.주어진 글 (A)에 이어질 내용을 순서에 맞게 배열한 것으로
② Human Stories Uncovered by the Numbers
가장 적절한 것은?
③ Data: A Framework for Understanding Humans
④ The Limitations of Language in Conveying Truth ① (B)-(D)-(C) ② (C)-(B)-(D)
⑤ The Advantages of Quantifying Human Experiences ③ (C)-(D)-(B) ④ (D)-(B)-(C)
⑤ (D)-(C)-(B)
42.밑줄 친 (a)~(e) 중에서 문맥상 낱말의 쓰임이 적절하지 않은
44.밑줄 친 (a)～(e) 중에서 가리키는 대상이 나머지 넷과 다른
것은? [3점]
것은?
① (a) ② (b) ③ (c) ④ (d) ⑤ (e)
① (a) ② (b) ③ (c) ④ (d) ⑤ (e)
[43~45] 다음 글을 읽고, 물음에 답하시오.
45.윗글에 관한 내용으로 적절하지 않은 것은?
(A)
① Jack은 자신의 농장에서 충분한 돈을 벌지 못했다.
Jack, an Arkansas farmer, was unhappy because he ② Jack은 자신의 이웃인 Victor에게서 농장을 샀다.
couldn’t make enough money from his farm. He worked ③ Victor는 다이아몬드를 발견해서 부자가 되었다.
hard for many years, but things didn’t improve. He sold ④ Victor는 자신의 주머니에서 작고 반짝이는 것을 꺼냈다.
his farm to his neighbor, Victor, who was by no means ⑤ Victor는 농가가 있던 자리에 거대한 집을 지었다.
wealthy. Hoping for a fresh start, he left for the big city
to find better opportunities. Years passed, but Jack still
* 확인 사항
couldn’t find the fortune he was looking for. Tired and
broke, (a)he returned to the area where his old farm was. ◦답안지의 해당란에 필요한 내용을 정확히 기입(표기)
*broke: 무일푼의 했는지 확인하시오.
8
8
