
=== PAGE 1 ===
2026학년도 3월 고1 전국연합학력평가 문제지
1
영어 영역
제3 교시
7.대화를 듣고, 남자가 도서관에서 책을 빌리지 못한 이유를 고
1번부터 17번까지는 듣고 답하는 문제입니다. 1번부터
르시오.
15번까지는 한 번만 들려주고, 16번부터 17번까지는 두 번
들려줍니다. 방송을 잘 듣고 답을 하시기 바랍니다. ① 도서관에 늦게 도착해서
② 다른 학생이 이미 대출해서
③ 학생증을 가져가지 않아서
1.다음을 듣고, 남자가 하는 말의 목적으로 가장 적절한 것을 고
④ 제때 반납하지 않은 책이 있어서
르시오.
⑤ 도서관 네트워크 시스템에 문제가 있어서
① 축제 공연 일정 변경을 안내하려고
② 밴드의 신입 부원 모집을 공지하려고 8.대화를 듣고, Race Against Hunger 행사에 관해 언급되지 않은
③ 밴드의 경연 대회 우승 소식을 알리려고
것을 고르시오.
④ 축제에서 밴드가 연주할 곡을 추천받으려고
① 목적 ② 기간
⑤ 축제에서 지켜야 할 안전 수칙을 설명하려고
③ 상품 ④ 참가비
⑤ 신청 방법
2.대화를 듣고, 여자의 의견으로 가장 적절한 것을 고르시오.
① 높은 강도의 운동을 한 뒤에는 휴식을 취해야 한다.
9.AI Coding Afterschool Program에 관한 다음 내용을 듣고, 일
② 근육통을 방지하려면 영양을 고르게 섭취해야 한다.
치하지 않는 것을 고르시오.
③ 근육 발달을 위해서는 규칙적으로 운동을 해야 한다.
④ 근육통을 줄이기 위해 운동 후 스트레칭을 해야 한다. ① 1학년 학생을 대상으로 한다.
⑤ 운동 종류에 따른 적절한 스트레칭 방식을 익혀야 한다. ② 3시간 동안 진행된다.
③ AI 코딩 실습을 포함한다.
3.다음을 듣고, 여자가 하는 말의 요지로 가장 적절한 것을 고르 ④ 참가 학생은 자신의 컴퓨터를 가져와야 한다.
⑤ 프로그램을 완료한 학생은 선물을 받는다.
시오.
① 새로운 환경에서는 언행을 신중하게 하는 것이 바람직하다.
② 침착한 태도는 상대에게 긍정적인 인상을 주어 호감을 높인다. 10.다음 표를 보면서 대화를 듣고, 여자가 예약할 수업을 고르시오.
③ 친구 관계는 서로를 배려하는 과정 속에서 자연스럽게 형성된다.
One­day Class
④ 먼저 인사를 건네는 것은 새로운 관계를 형성하는 데 도움이 된다.
Class Level Class Size Price
⑤ 원만한 인간관계를 위해서는 상대의 인사에 적절히 반응해야 한다.
① Cake Baking Beginner 6 people $30
② Cake Baking Intermediate 4 people $40
4.대화를 듣고, 그림에서 대화의 내용과 일치하지 않는 것을 고
③ Cookie Baking Beginner 10 people $30
르시오.
④ Cookie Baking Advanced 7 people $50
⑤ Soap Making Intermediate 5 people $30
11.대화를 듣고, 여자의 마지막 말에 대한 남자의 응답으로 가장
적절한 것을 고르시오.
① I’m sorry. I already bought a bike.
② Sure. Let’s go to the park together.
③ You’re right. It’s not so hard to fix.
④ That’s too bad. Try to fix it, though.
5.대화를 듣고, 남자가 할 일로 가장 적절한 것을 고르시오.
⑤ No thanks. I heard it’ll rain tomorrow.
① 녹화 시작하기
② 마이크 점검하기 12.대화를 듣고, 남자의 마지막 말에 대한 여자의 응답으로 가장
③ 자료 업로드하기 적절한 것을 고르시오. [3점]
④ 온라인 링크 공유하기
① Don’t worry. Let’s meet and go over the rules together.
⑤ 카메라 앵글 점검하기
② That’s nice. I think I understand the rules much better now.
③ Actually, yes. That’s the main reason I won the competition.
6.대화를 듣고, 여자가 지불할 금액을 고르시오. [3점]
④ You’re welcome. I’ll ask our teammates to meet after school.
① $25 ② $30 ③ $45 ④ $50 ⑤ $55 ⑤ I agree with you. I also think the new rules are easy to follow.
1
8

=== PAGE 2 ===
2 영어 영역
고 1
13.대화를 듣고, 여자의 마지막 말에 대한 남자의 응답으로 가장 18.다음 글의 목적으로 가장 적절한 것은?
적절한 것을 고르시오.
Dear Connexa Point Table Tennis Center members,
Man:
I am the manager of the Connexa Point Table Tennis
① Okay. I hope she understands our situation. Center. Thank you for your interest in the upcoming
② Well done. He will be ready to start the project today. reopening of the center. Unfortunately, during the repair
process, unexpected electrical issues were discovered,
③ Don’t worry. We finished the project last week already.
causing the work to take longer than we planned. We
④ Right. Let’s email her about the rescheduled project date.
regret to inform you that the center’s reopening must be
⑤ Great. It’ll be easy to run the project with just the two of us. delayed. The center was originally scheduled to reopen
on April 1st. However, it will now reopen on May 1st to
ensure the safety of all members. We look forward to
seeing you back on the court soon. Thank you for your
14.대화를 듣고, 남자의 마지막 말에 대한 여자의 응답으로 가장
patience and understanding.
적절한 것을 고르시오. [3점] Sincerely,
Manager of the Table Tennis Center
Woman:
① Many visitors usually ask about the animals’ backgrounds. ① 탁구 대회 운영을 위한 물품 기부를 요청하려고
② The event starts at 10 a.m., so please come by then. ② 탁구 센터 재개장 일정 연기를 알리려고
③ Some animals get nervous when many people gather. ③ 탁구 센터 이전 소식을 안내하려고
④ Please take photos of the visitors with the animals. ④ 탁구 강습 프로그램을 홍보하려고
⑤ I’m planning to finish uploading the photos tonight. ⑤ 탁구 강습비 인상을 공지하려고
19.다음 글에 드러난 Cassie의 심경 변화로 가장 적절한 것은?
15.다음 상황 설명을 듣고, Emily가 Lucas에게 할 말로 가장 적 It was the first carnival for the four­year­old girl, Cassie.
She had only heard about it from her mother. She had been
절한 것을 고르시오.
imagining colorful balloons and delicious candies for a long
Emily: time. When she finally arrived at the carnival, the twinkling
① I’m so sorry to hear that your bag is missing. lights and music made her jump with joy. The magician
showed his tricks and she cheered with her family. But
② I appreciate your help in getting my bag back.
suddenly, she saw a lot of huge balloons in the parade
③ I’m afraid that I can’t help you find your bag.
coming towards her. She thought they were too big, like
④ Thank you for helping me buy a new bag. monsters. Her heart began to beat fast from fear. Cassie
⑤ I’m so glad you finally found your bag. froze and dropped her cotton candy on the ground. She
quickly hid behind her mother.
① excited → scared ② amazed → envious
③ relaxed → annoyed ④ proud → embarrassed
[16~17] 다음을 듣고, 물음에 답하시오.
⑤ confident → disappointed
16.남자가 하는 말의 주제로 가장 적절한 것은?
① meal patterns across different times of the day 20.다음 글에서 필자가 주장하는 바로 가장 적절한 것은?
② various methods for preparing a quick breakfast There is simply no better way to influence or stir an
③ effective diet strategies aimed at health recovery audience—instantly, powerfully, authentically—than by opening
up to them with a personal story or anecdote. To be clear:
④ food choices recommended before morning exercise
I’m not saying you need to tell them long stories about your
⑤ practical tips for storing food items for busy people
family vacations or show them baby pictures from the stage.
I’m saying that you can share a key biographical detail, or
an emotion that you’re feeling in the moment, or a
self­deprecating joke. It is a tried­and­tested way of bonding
17.언급된 음식이 아닌 것은?
with an audience of strangers—and of laying the groundwork
for you to then persuade them. The harsh reality is that
① banana
people won’t bond with your arguments in a vacuum, but
② yogurt
they will, says speech coach Bas van den Beld, “bond with
③ honey
you”—the person making those arguments. By sharing a
④ egg revealing story or a personal flaw, you allow audience
members a way to identify with you.
⑤ nut
*authentically: 진정성 있게 **self­deprecating: 자기 비하의
① 청중에게서 신뢰감을 얻기 위해 화자의 전문성을 강조해야 한다.
② 청중에게 영향을 주려면 화자 자신의 이야기로 유대감을 형성해야 한다.
③ 논리적인 타당성을 확보하기 위해 객관적인 통계 자료를 제시해야 한다.
이제 듣기 문제가 끝났습니다. 18번부터는 문제지의 지시
④ 강연의 일관성을 유지하려면 화자의 사적인 감정 표현을 자제해야 한다.
에 따라 답을 하시기 바랍니다.
⑤ 청중을 효과적으로 설득하기 위해 정보를 최대한 상세히 설명해야 한다.
2
8

=== PAGE 3 ===
영어 영역 3
고 1
21.밑줄 친 steal the shade from our descendants가 다음 글에 23.다음 글의 주제로 가장 적절한 것은?
서 의미하는 바로 가장 적절한 것은? [3점]
Conformity in the teenage years has been studied by
We are now at a point of unprecedented genetic, cultural, and putting young people in situations where they are asked to
environmental power as a species, and we are linked to nearly make a choice or decision where that appears to go against
every other person on Earth. We are embodied individuals what everyone else in the group is saying. The fascinating
trapped within limited time, but we are also networked data thing about the results of these studies is that conformity is
streams, memories, and influencers, and part of a grander not spread equally across all age groups. Thus, the willingness
humanity. Our decisions today have far­reaching impacts that to go along with others reaches a peak around the age of
place a responsibility on us to become good ancestors, to 14. After that, this tendency decreases, so that by 16 or 17,
take the long view and time travel forward to imagine the young people are much more able to disagree with the group
well­being of billions of people whose lives will be lived in and to stand up for their own opinion. This is an important
the world we are currently making. Centuries ago, leaders of finding. It demonstrates that the influence of the peer group
the native North American Iroquois people created “seven is not the same across all ages. As young people mature,
generation stewardship,” instructing people to consider the they become more resilient, and more able to defend their
impact of every decision on their children, seven generations opinions as individuals.
into the future. In the precious few decades that Earth is *resilient: 회복 탄력적인
ours, while we enjoy the gardens planted by our ancestors,
① negative effects of social influence on teenagers
we must not steal the shade from our descendants.
② various factors that influence group decision­making
*unprecedented: 전례 없는 **ancestor: 조상 ③ changes in the tendency to follow peers across ages
***stewardship: (재산·조직체 등의) 관리 ④ differences between individual choices and group decisions
① ignore the benefits passed down from our fathers ⑤ ways to overcome peer pressure in the early teenage years
② remove environmental problems our generation faces
③ blame our children for their lack of responsibilities
④ take care of resources to give to the future generation
⑤ take from future generations what they deserve to have
24.다음 글의 제목으로 가장 적절한 것은? [3점]
Habits aren’t bad. We need them to survive. Understanding
22.다음 글의 요지로 가장 적절한 것은?
how the brain uses habits, and how you can work with
Despite learned eating behaviors that are formed in early them, is essential for business. One question to ask is, are
childhood and inborn biological differences, taste preferences you really trying to break a habit, or would you do better
can be changed throughout our lives due to neuroplasticity, by attaching to another one (known as temptation bundling)?
our brain’s amazing adaptability: There is far more flexibility Wharton professor Katy Milkman led a research project
in our food behaviors than most think, even as we age. This called Holding the Hunger Games Hostage at the Gym,
is terrific news for adventurous eaters who want to expand where participants could only have access to their audio
their dinner menu—it’s a big, tasty world out there!—but devices while at the gym. This uses a tempting habit—
it’s amazing news for those eager to break poor diet habits. listening to that awesome audiobook—and combines it with
Just as kids gradually learn to like nutritious foods, so, too, a habit people would like to build, but may otherwise feel
can adults readjust their taste. Many who switch from forced to put off, like exercising. The participants whose
processed grain foods like white bread and white rice to devices were “held hostage” were 51 percent more likely to
whole grain types, for instance, gradually learn to prefer the visit the gym. And the really amazing thing is what
nutty flavors and chewy textures. Repeated exposure— and happened after it was over: nearly two­thirds opted to pay
a willingness to change—is the key. to have gym­only access for their devices!
*neuroplasticity: 신경 가소성 **nutritious: 영양분이 많은 *temptation: 유혹 **hostage: 볼모
① 뇌의 적응력은 나이가 들수록 급격히 저하된다. ① Stop Thinking and Just Go to the Gym Now!
② 어릴 때 형성된 식습관이 평생의 건강을 좌우한다. ② Avoid Listening to Music While You Work Out
③ 개인의 식습관에는 유전적인 영향이 크게 작용한다. ③ Why Smart Businesses Focus on Healthcare Service
④ 다양한 음식의 섭취가 뇌의 구조적 발달을 촉진한다. ④ The Key to Success in Life: Give Up Everyday Hobbies
⑤ 식성은 반복된 경험과 변화 의지를 통해 바꿀 수 있다. ⑤ Pairing Pleasure with Effort: Guiding People to New Behavior
3
8

=== PAGE 4 ===
4 영어 영역
고 1
25.다음 도표의 내용과 일치하지 않는 것은? 27.Green Parking Pass에 관한 다음 안내문의 내용과 일치하지
않는 것은?
Green Parking Pass
If you are looking for a convenient parking option in
our city, check out the Green Parking Pass! You can
park safely and save money while using the pass in the
city.
Where to Use: All public parking lots in the city
When to Use: April 1st to June 30th, 2026
Type Price Available Time & Service
Note: Up to three responses were allowed per person.
Basic $30 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
The above graph shows the top benefits of working from
Plus $75 at any time
home, based on a 2023 global survey of over 20,000
Premium $120 at any time+reserved parking space
workers. ①The biggest benefit was ‘No Commute,’ chosen
by just under 60 percent of respondents. ②‘Save on Gas Purchase Details
and Lunch Costs’ came in second place, and ‘Flexibility over
∙The pass can be purchased online or at the city
When I Work’ ranked third. ③The percentage of public parking offices.
respondents who selected ‘Less Time Getting Ready for ∙Each person can purchase only one pass.
Work’ was over 30 percent. ④The percentage of
respondents citing ‘Individual Quiet Time’ was lower than
① 시의 모든 공영 주차장에서 사용할 수 있다.
that of those who selected ‘Spending More Time with
② Basic 타입은 오전 9시부터 오후 6시까지 이용 가능하다.
Family and Friends.’ ⑤The gap between the percentage of
③ Premium 타입의 가격은 120달러이다.
respondents who selected ‘Fewer Meetings’ and that of
④ 시 공영 주차장 사무소에서는 구매할 수 없다.
those who selected ‘No Commute’ was about 50 percentage
⑤ 한 사람당 한 개만 구매할 수 있다.
points.
*commute: 통근
28.One Week Online Film Camp에 관한 다음 안내문의 내용과
일치하는 것은?
26.Gary Graffman에 관한 다음 글의 내용과 일치하지 않는 것은? One Week Online Film Camp
Gary Graffman was born in New York City in 1928 and
Create your own short film in just one week! You’ll
began playing the piano at the age of three. When he was
write, direct, shoot, and edit your own project.
seven, he entered the Curtis Institute of Music, where he
received training that laid the foundation for his career. In Open to: Ages 14—17 (no experience required)
1949, he won the Leventritt Award and then played concerts Dates: Monday, April 6th—Sunday, April 12th
worldwide. In the late 1970s, Graffman lost control of the fingers Time: Weekdays 5 p.m.—9 p.m.
on his right hand, but he never gave up playing the piano. Weekends 1 p.m.—9 p.m.
Reconsidering the traditional piano performance convention of
Fee: $200 per person
using both hands, he focused on works for the left hand
alone, such as Ravel’s Piano Concerto for the Left Hand. Details
Graffman returned to the Curtis Institute of Music in 1980 ∙You’ll participate in online interactive classes with real‐time
instruction.
as a member of the piano faculty. There he taught many
∙You’ll complete your own film (shorter than 5 minutes
outstanding young musicians, including Lang Lang, and his
in length) to be screened at the end of the camp.
lifelong commitment to music continues to inspire people
today.
How to apply: Send us an e­mail at oneweek!@film.com.
*convention: 관습 **faculty: 교수진
① 세 살에 피아노 연주를 시작했다. ① 13세부터 참가할 수 있다.
② 1949년에 Leventritt Award를 수상했다. ② 주말에는 오후 5시에 시작한다.
③ 오른손 손가락을 제어할 수 없게 되어 피아노 연주를 포기했다. ③ 요금은 1인당 100달러이다.
④ 1980년에 Curtis Institute of Music으로 돌아갔다. ④ 참가자는 10분 길이의 영화를 완성할 것이다.
⑤ Lang Lang을 포함한 많은 뛰어난 젊은 음악가들을 가르쳤다. ⑤ 참가 신청을 하려면 이메일을 보내야 한다.
4
8

=== PAGE 5 ===
영어 영역 5
고 1
29.다음 글의 밑줄 친 부분 중, 어법상 틀린 것은? [3점] [31~34] 다음 빈칸에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것을 고르시오.
A conceptual model is an explanation, usually highly 31.Just like how other rooms in your home can cause anxiety
simplified, of how something works. It doesn’t have to be when filled with too much stuff, the same is true for kids.
complete or even ①accurate as long as it is useful. The If the play space houses every single toy that has ever been
files, folders, and icons you see displayed on a computer purchased for them since birth, they may not be able to
screen ②helps people create the conceptual model of express their feelings, but they can feel overwhelmed by so
documents and folders inside the computer, or of apps or much stuff. This reminds us of how women look in their
applications on the screen. In fact, there are no folders closets packed full of clothes and think, I have nothing to
inside the computer—those are effective conceptualizations wear. helps everyone see what they have and
③designed to make them easier to use. Sometimes these use what they own. When there’s too much to see, too
depictions can add to the confusion, however. When reading much to step over, and too much input, kids have a hard
e­mail or visiting a website, the material appears to be on time making a choice. Streamlining a play space is so
the device, for that is ④where it is displayed and used. But important. You want your kids to feel inspired and
in fact, in many cases the actual material is “in the cloud,” imaginative in the room—not overcome with indecision.
located on some distant machine. The conceptual model is of
*overwhelmed: 압도된 **streamline: 간소화하다
one, coherent image, whereas it may actually consist of
① Revision
parts, each located on different machines ⑤that could be
② Invitation
almost anywhere in the world.
③ Collection
*depiction: 묘사 **coherent: 일관된
④ Possession
⑤ Cooperation
32.Students often mistake familiarity with true mastery,
creating a dangerous “illusion of competence” where
recognizing information feels like genuine knowledge, but
they struggle when asked to recall or apply it independently.
30.다음 글의 밑줄 친 부분 중, 문맥상 낱말의 쓰임이 적절하지 This cognitive bias, strengthened by passive study methods,
않은 것은? leads learners to overestimate their understanding. Teaching
materials (even informally or imaginatively) actively counters
The principal transportation mode in the developing world,
this illusion by requiring deep processing, active recall,
even in large cities, is still walking because of constraints on
structured organization, and revealing gaps in knowledge. It
the resources needed to operate extensive transit systems.
introduces powerful methods like teaching imaginary
People cover ①long distances on foot every day and expend
students, peer­teaching in study groups, employing the
human energy that they can hardly spare. Walking under those
Feynman Technique, and writing explanations for others.
conditions is an unavoidable burden that ②consumes productive
Ultimately, transforms
capability. In North America and Western Europe, however, the
surface familiarity into real mastery, exposing and filling
attitude and policies are just the ③same: walking is efficient,
gaps in knowledge and ensuring solid, reliable understanding.
healthful, and natural. We should do ④more of it—almost
everybody agrees—and some of the current trends should be *illusion: 착각 **cognitive: 인지의 ***passive: 수동적인
reversed. Ironically, among the most popular exercise machines
① adopting the teacher mindset
in health clubs and in homes are tread­mills that simulate
② using leisure time effectively
walking, which could be otherwise ⑤accomplished with a
③ activating background knowledge
transport purpose on the street.
④ supporting the emotional stability
*constraint: 제약 **transit: 운송 ⑤ reducing the amount of studying time
5
8

=== PAGE 6 ===
6 영어 영역
고 1
33.From around 3000 BC, the Sumerian officials would mark 35.다음 글에서 전체 흐름과 관계 없는 문장은?
their lists of goods on clay tablets. If they wanted to record
The “set point theory” concept is that your body has a
five fish, they would mark five pictures of a fish. Their first
stable quantity of fat cells by the time you are an adult.
great intellectual leap came from .
The more weight you carried in your childhood and your
In other words, they would represent five fish with a
teenage years, the more fat cells you will have as an adult.
numeral for the number five alongside a symbol for the fish.
①These fat cells then become “fuller” or “thinner” as you
If they wanted to describe five of something else, they
gain and lose weight as an adult. ②The set point is the
realized they could keep the same numeral and trade the
trigger in these cells that will send a message to your brain
object symbol for a cow, or a jar of oil, or whatever else
saying that your fat cells are getting too thin and that you
they were interested in. The Sumerians had developed the
must eat more. ③Different people’s fat cells will have
idea of an emancipated number, existing in its own right and
different set points, and the strength of the message is
independent of whatever it is being used to count. It is easy
affected by the number of cells. ④Some researchers report
to take the emancipated number for granted as it is so
that fat cells can release hormones and other chemicals
deeply set into modern thought, but to the earliest
that could help treat a disease. ⑤Thus a person with lots
civilizations it was intellectually new and extremely
of fat cells and a high set point will battle with a strong
powerful. [3점]
desire for food when dieting.
*numeral: 숫자 **emancipated: 해방된
*trigger: 방아쇠
① adding more complex symbols to describe the quality of goods
② separating the number from the object they were counting
③ representing the physical shape of each object accurately
④ connecting the count of an object with its market value
⑤ applying the use of numbers to only precious items
[36~37] 주어진 글 다음에 이어질 글의 순서로 가장 적절한 것
을 고르시오.
36.
34.The emphasis on learning from the ingroup takes little
account of individuals. Amazingly, while we may dislike
Initially the catchphrase “less is more” had a simple
some of the people in our ingroup, we still copy them.
meaning.
Wilks, Kirby, and Nielsen studied copying behavior in the
context of observing how to open a puzzle box. Ingroups and (A) Over time, many of their buttons became viewed as
outgroups were distinguished in a minimal way, using simple
“extra” and were removed, and with each reduction
color coding of wristbands. The children did not simply like
these devices eventually developed into the phones in
all members of their ingroup; they disliked those who
our pockets. The scale of the object became smaller,
behaved in an antisocial fashion. Indeed, they liked these
and the functions of the buttons got lost in the
antisocial ingroup members less than the prosocial members
three­dot menus and multilayered folders of our phones.
of an outgroup. Still, their dislike did not affect their
(B) First mentioned in Robert Browning’s poem “Andrea del
tendency to copy ingroup behavior more closely than
Sarto,” it suggests that everything simple is better and
outgroup behavior. This overimitation reveals that we are
more beautiful than the complex and tangled. Nowadays
not copying in order to learn how to open a box most
efficiently. We want to learn how to do it in the proper way— this phrase is heard often—maybe even too often.
in other words, .
(C) But it’s important to recognize that the way of thinking
This will be appropriately demonstrated even by antisocial
that lies behind these words slowly extinguishes certain
ingroup members. [3점]
habits from our daily life. For example, think about the
*distinguish: 식별하다 heavy, massive radio receivers that existed back in the
day.
① conforming to the rules and conventions of the ingroup
*extinguish: 소멸시키다
② following outgroup behavior which is socially appropriate
③ avoiding behaviors demonstrated by the ingroup on purpose ① (A)-(C)-(B) ② (B)-(A)-(C)
④ pursuing the most efficient strategy for completing the task ③ (B)-(C)-(A) ④ (C)-(A)-(B)
⑤ maintaining an individual identity rather than a group identity ⑤ (C)-(B)-(A)
6
8

=== PAGE 7 ===
영어 영역 7
고 1
37. 39.
We first need to understand the short but hidden Yet a few hours later, after the sun has warmed the
history behind the plastics industry and how it became greenhouses above freezing, the second visit presents a
deeply rooted in our daily lives. Before plastic, people miraculous contrast.
lived more sustainably, with far fewer waste problems
Making two visits to one of our cold greenhouses—one at dawn
than we face today.
after a below­zero night, and the other a few hours later—
(A) However, the plastics industry was quick to counter these provides a striking introduction to the winter harvest. (①) During
concerns, launching campaigns that presented recycling as the dawn visit all the crops are frozen solid. (②)Raising the
the solution to all our problems. They pushed the idea inner covers, which is difficult because they too are frozen,
that pollution was the fault of consumers, not the reveals a sight of hard, frost­coated leaves bleak enough to
convince anyone that this idea is foolish. (③) Under the inner
corporations flooding the market with plastic.
covers are closely spaced rows of vigorous, healthy leaves that
(B) This dream came with a price. Over time, people began
stretch the length of the greenhouse. (④) The leaf colors in
to notice the environmental impact, and the early seeds
different shades of greens, reds, maroons, and yellows stand
of today’s environmental movement were planted.
bright against the dark soil. (⑤) It looks like a never­ending
(C) However, after the invention of plastic, its rapid adoption spring.
during World War II, and its explosion into consumer *frost­coated: 서리가 내려앉은 **bleak: 황량한
***vigorous: 생기가 넘치는
goods, plastic was everywhere. The growing industry
came to symbolize the convenience and prosperity of the
American dream.
40.다음 글의 내용을 한 문장으로 요약하려 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)
*sustainably: 지속 가능하게 **prosperity: 번영
에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?
① (A)-(C)-(B) ② (B)-(A)-(C)
③ (B)-(C)-(A) ④ (C)-(A)-(B)
Parenting experts say children need to learn independence
⑤ (C)-(B)-(A)
and resilience. But cities and suburbs don’t offer safe walk
and bike routes to school, malls kick teenagers out on the
weekends, and free time disappears under a spreadsheet of
activities. All of those “musts” take more of the parents’
time or money to navigate, because the child can’t do it on
their own. As Darby Saxbe, a clinical psychologist, recently
wrote in the New York Times, “underparenting requires
[38~39] 글의 흐름으로 보아, 주어진 문장이 들어가기에 가장
structural change.” Unlike most political experts, she’s not
적절한 곳을 고르시오.
just talking about economic policies like family leave and
38. government­supported childcare. She’s talking about actual
physical structures, and the cultural change required to
Thus, what we call major progress in science is not a populate them. We need to “build back our tolerance for
movement from a less to a more accurate paradigm. children in public spaces,” she writes, “and create safe
environments where lightly supervised kids can move around
As Kuhn proposed, our propositions about the world are
freely.”
embedded within paradigms, roughly a network of
*tolerance: 관용 **supervised: 감독받는
interrelated commitments to a particular theory, a conception
of a subject matter, and methodological practices. (①) 
Thus, when scientists undertake research, they do so from
To help parents raise independent children, cities and suburbs
within a specific paradigm. (②) Even the most exacting
need to create (A) environments, where parents can
measurements are only sensible from within that paradigm.
keep their children under (B) supervision, through
(③) For example, a look into a microscope tells you
changes in physical structure and culture.
nothing unless you are already informed about the nature of
the instrument and what you are supposed to be looking at. (A) (B)
(④) Rather, it is a horizontal shift from one ‘way of
① supportive ··········· mild
seeing the world’ to another. (⑤) For Kuhn, ‘the scientist ② supportive ··········· strict
with a new paradigm sees differently from the way he had ③ educational ··········· strict
seen before.’ [3점] ④ competing ··········· mild
*embed: 깊이 박아 넣다 **microscope: 현미경 ⑤ competing ··········· public
7
8

=== PAGE 8 ===
8 영어 영역
고 1
[41~42] 다음 글을 읽고, 물음에 답하시오. (B)
The king, puzzled and slightly annoyed at what he did,
It’s fair to say that patience has a terrible name. For
asked, “What is the meaning of this coin? I am the
one thing, the prospect of doing anything that you’ve been richest king in the land. Why would I need a single
told will require patience simply seems unattractive. More coin?” The sage replied calmly, “Oh, Great King, I found
specifically, though, it’s disturbingly (a)passive. It is the this coin yesterday while walking through your capital. I
had no need for it, so I planned to give it to someone
virtue that has traditionally been urged upon housewives,
who did. Yet everyone (b)I met seemed content and
while their husbands led more exciting lives outside the
lacked any urgent need.”
home; or on racial minorities, told to wait just a few more
*content: 만족한
decades for their full civil rights. The talented but
self­effacing employee who “waits patiently” for a (C)
promotion, we tend to feel, will be waiting a long time:
The next morning, near the palace, they saw the king
she ought to be trumpeting her (b)achievements instead. preparing for a war. The king was not satisfied with
In all such cases, patience is a way of psychologically what he had and sought to expand his kingdom.
accommodating yourself to a lack of power, an attitude Accompanied by his army, he stopped when he saw the
intended to help you to resign yourself to your (c)lowly sage and his disciple. He approached the sage and asked
for a blessing that might ensure victory. After a quiet
position, in theoretical hopes of better days to come. But
moment of thought, the sage handed the king the coin
as society accelerates, something (d)shifts. In more and
(c)he had found the previous day.
more contexts, patience becomes a form of power. In a
world geared for hurry, the capacity to (e)feed the urge (D)
to hurry—to allow things to take the time they take—is
The sage added, “Today, I see you preparing for war,
a way to gain purchase on the world, to do the work that
seeking to conquer more. And (d)I thought you, the one
counts, and to derive satisfaction from the doing itself, who desires more, were in need of this coin.” The king
instead of putting off all your fulfillment to the future. was struck by the sage’s words. He realized that his
hunger for more had made him forget the value of
*virtue: 미덕 **self­effacing: 자기를 내세우지 않는
contentment. The sage’s simple but powerful lesson made
***resign: 단념하다
him change (e)his plans. The king called off the invasion
and chose to appreciate what he already had.
41.윗글의 제목으로 가장 적절한 것은?
*conquer: 정복하다
① Patience Can Never Be an Answer
② Focus on the Work That Truly Counts
43.주어진 글 (A)에 이어질 내용을 순서에 맞게 배열한 것으로
③ Patience: Not a Weakness, but a Power
가장 적절한 것은?
④ The Hidden Costs of Waiting Too Long
① (B)-(D)-(C) ② (C)-(B)-(D)
⑤ Being Patient: a Key to Long­term Relationship
③ (C)-(D)-(B) ④ (D)-(B)-(C)
⑤ (D)-(C)-(B)
42.밑줄 친 (a)~(e) 중에서 문맥상 낱말의 쓰임이 적절하지 않은
44.밑줄 친 (a)～(e) 중에서 가리키는 대상이 나머지 넷과 다른
것은? [3점]
것은?
① (a) ② (b) ③ (c) ④ (d) ⑤ (e)
① (a) ② (b) ③ (c) ④ (d) ⑤ (e)
45.윗글에 관한 내용으로 적절하지 않은 것은?
[43~45] 다음 글을 읽고, 물음에 답하시오.
① 현자는 소박한 삶을 살았기에 동전이 필요하지 않았다.
(A)
② 왕은 현자가 한 행동에 당황스러웠고 약간 불쾌함을 느꼈다.
One day, a sage was traveling with his disciple through ③ 현자는 전쟁을 마치고 돌아오는 왕을 궁전 근처에서 보았다.
the capital of a prosperous kingdom. As they walked ④ 왕은 현자에게 다가가 축복을 부탁했다.
along a busy road, the sage noticed a coin on the ground. ⑤ 왕은 침략을 취소했고 자신이 가진 것을 소중히 여기기로 했다.
Since he lived simply and had no need for it, he told his
disciple (a)he hoped to give it to someone who truly
required it. The two men searched the streets, but found * 확인 사항
no one in genuine need of the coin.
◦답안지의 해당란에 필요한 내용을 정확히 기입(표기)
*sage: 현자(賢者) **disciple: 제자 했는지 확인하시오.
8
8
