A Journey into a Magical World

I had been wanting to see the musical Wicked for a long time. It opened in 2003 on Broadway and got great reviews. Everyone recommends it. I finally got to see it last weekend. The musical is based on an imaginative story of two characters from the book The Wizard of Oz: Elphaba, the wicked witch, and Glinda, the good witch. It tells their background story and explains how they became known as wicked and good. What impressed me the most was the theme of the musical. It is about forming friendships, getting to know oneself, and accepting differences.

A Fascinating Storyline

The story begins in a magical place, the Land of Oz. In the musical, Elphaba and Glinda first meet at university. Elphaba was born with green skin and usually stays away from others. Because of her unusual appearance and cold personality, she has very few friends. Meanwhile, Glinda has a very kind personality, which makes her quite popular. At first, Elphaba and Glinda do not get along. However, as they get to know and learn about each other, they become close friends. Elphaba has exceptional magical powers, and some other characters try to take advantage of this. Glinda and Elphaba's friendship is continuously challenged in the story. Nevertheless, in the end, their friendship wins. Every relationship has its ups and downs, so I could easily relate to the main characters.

So if you care to find me
Look to the western sky
As someone told me lately
"Everyone deserves the chance to fly"
I'm defying gravity
And you won't bring me down
Bring me down

The Unforgettable Songs

Of course, I cannot review a musical without talking about the songs. Wicked has many great songs, but there are two that I especially like. "Defying Gravity" is the most famous song in the musical. It comes at a key turning point in the story. Elphaba used to admire a wizard, but one day she finds out that he has an evil plan and can't be trusted anymore. She sings about her determination to fight against him. She shows her true powers and rises into the air on her broom while singing this song. She sings that she will not let people bring her down anymore. Her powerful voice fascinated me. When the song ended, the entire audience clapped enthusiastically.

The second song that had a great impact on me was "For Good." At the end of the musical, the two friends have to choose different paths and say goodbye to each other. Elphaba decides to leave her home and asks Glinda to protect the people of Oz. At this moment, they start to sing to each other. The song moved me because Glinda and Elphaba explain that meeting each other has changed them for the better. It is a truly touching moment that shows their strong friendship.

I do believe I have been changed for the better
And because I knew you
Because I knew you
Because I knew you
I have been changed
For good

The Eye-Catching Visuals

The exciting story and beautiful songs of Wicked are accompanied by beautiful visuals. First, the costumes were incredible. In one scene, we see the people of Oz wearing unique clothes. I couldn't believe the detail and beauty of the masks, wigs, and dresses. Furthermore, all kinds of tricks invited me into the magical world. I really enjoyed noticing the symbols used in the performance. For example, a huge dragon-shaped device was hanging above the stage. It seemed to move whenever Elphaba or Glinda made a choice. I think using these visual effects made the musical more exciting.

In my opinion, the musical Wicked is an incredible work. It has great music and is visually impressive. It also has a strong plot that kept me engaged from beginning to end. I highly recommend this show to anyone interested in musicals. You will be able to explore the themes of friendship and personal change in a magical setting.
