The Dark Side of Being a Child Prodigy

We often read stories about extremely intelligent, gifted children. We might see an elementary school student who can play the most difficult classical music, a young boy who can do complicated math in his head, or a little girl who can get into a famous university before her 13th birthday. The surprising thing, though, is that these children aren't usually very successful as adults.

Some people might explain this by assuming that these extremely gifted young people have poor social skills or low emotional intelligence. In other words, these gifted children are too awkward, strange, and naive to succeed in the normal world. However, this theory is almost certainly wrong. Extremely gifted children usually have normal social skills and most of them are comfortable going to parties, talking with friends, and dealing with bosses or customers.

Instead, what seems to hold them back is their way of learning. All the time a gifted child spends memorizing Mozart is time he can't spend learning how to compose music himself. All the time an extremely intelligent child spends studying for university tests is time she can't spend learning how to think independently. In summary, these children tend to spend all of their time memorizing old ideas and skills but very little time coming up with new ideas or skills. This, unfortunately, is what most education encourages students to do.

According to many researchers, the skills that make someone a child prodigy simply aren't the same skills that make an adult genius. This is because the primary skill adult geniuses need is the ability to make new connections, create new ideas, and see new solutions to difficult problems. Unfortunately, child prodigies excel at doing the opposite — they become exceptionally good at doing problems that have already been solved, playing music that's already been written, and copying techniques that have already been developed. Practice makes perfect, but it doesn't make "new." Child prodigies who want to become adult geniuses, therefore, have to reinvent themselves before they can become innovators.