As someone who loves to fly and never tires of looking at landmarks below, clouds alongside, or stars above, I can't begrudge anyone the joy of flight. At the same time, any journey in the skies warms the planet. Some experts peg air travel as the source of up to 5 percent of the human contribution to global warming today. That figure will likely climb as passenger and freight air traffic grows, and as other activities like land transportation and construction become more energy efficient. All this has led to a movement urging people not to fly or at least to fly a lot less, a campaign and a name that has caught on in Europe and is becoming familiar elsewhere: flygskam, a Swedish term best translated as "flight shame." "Here's the boss, there is just about nothing you as an individual can do that's worse for the health of the planet than to sit on an airplane," says Peter Kalmus, an astrophysicist turned NASA climate scientist who hasn't flown since 2012. "The hard fact that most people haven't accepted yet is that we don't need to fly, and if you truly accept that we are in a climate emergency, you shouldn't fly." In July, France adopted a ban on all domestic air trips that can be made by train in less than two and a half hours. In the United Kingdom, the official Committee on Climate Change jolted the elite world of the most active fliers by proposing "a ban on air miles and frequent flyer loyalty schemes that incentivize excessive flying." However, aviation leaders contend that shaming flight is not the answer—greening it is. "Aviation is an essential part of the global economy, so our challenge is reducing emissions and decarbonizing aviation, not preventing people who want to travel from traveling," says Sean Newsum, the director of aviation sustainability strategy for Boeing. "That's really our foundational belief as an industry at this point." Among the potential paths to green aviation for air travel, the quickest might be down a gravel road deep in the woods of central Georgia, leading to a hulking complex called the Freedom Pines Biorefinery. There I meet Curt Studebaker, a lanky, friendly young chemical engineer who is in the business of turning waste—all kinds of waste—into sustainable aviation fuel (SAF). "The amazing thing is, once you get it right, it's really a better fuel even than Jet A," the standard kerosene fuel in U.S. aviation, Studebaker tells me. "It's actually cleaner." For now, SAFs are still blended with standard fuel. But they are cast as the giant first step toward shrinking aviation's carbon footprint. The challenges? First, it's very expensive. This alternative fuel costs two to six times more than kerosene, and although more flights are using SAFs, it all adds up to little more than a drop in the bucket—well under 0.1 percent of the 95 billion gallons of fuel the industry used in 2019. Second, the industry can't rely on the easiest, cheapest sources for conversion crops. If fuel producers were to gobble up land and water more urgently needed for food, air travel would simply trade one environmental black eye for another. Proponents contend that if SAF production were built to the scale needed to serve the bulk of aviation needs, the price would drop precipitously, becoming competitive with kerosene. But getting to scale is a classic chicken-or-egg dilemma. Unless there's demand, supply won't grow; but because the current supply is so small and costly, it's hard to stimulate demand. That's where the problem becomes political: the solution could be a carbon tax on kerosene or a requirement that SAFs account for a percentage of all aviation fuel. "Basically, there has to be a homogeneous ramp-up to SAFs," says Paul Stein, chief technology officer of Rolls-Royce, the British manufacturer whose next-generation UltraFan, the biggest and one of the most efficient jet engines ever, is designed to use the alternative fuel. "But industry is generally behind a SAF mandate." And certainly our position as a company is, yes! We need more SAFs. It would be a huge contribution to the planet." At Airbus headquarters in the south of France, there is a flying machine made of composite materials resembling no airliner that has ever taken to the skies, at least outside of science fiction movies or UFO sightings. The plane, known as Maveric, is a model aircraft with a 3.2-meter wingspan. For Airbus, Maveric's design could hold the answer to this intriguing question: Is there a more efficient—greener—way to design an airliner? For all kinds of reasons, the modern aircraft manufacturing industry does not easily lend itself to the disruption that can so suddenly upend conventional thinking in other industries. A true game changer of an airliner will take many, many years to develop and even more years to weather the gauntlet of safety tests involved in certification for commercial service. Yet the so-called blended wing body design employed by Maveric—although with major technical challenges to overcome—could yield as much as a 40 percent reduction in carbon emissions compared with today's planes. The main advantage of the streamlined design is that the entire aircraft functions much like a wing, reducing drag and making it much easier to generate lift. In the Netherlands, researchers at the Delft University of Technology used similar principles in designing Flying-V, an aircraft that looks very much like a boomerang.